# Data Structure

## Final Exam

Class ____________ Name ____________ No. ________ Score ________

###1. Select the correct choice. (10 scores)

**(3) For sequential search,**

    (A) The best, average, and worst cases are asymptotically the same.

    (B) The best case is asymptotically better than the average and worst cases.

    (C) The best and average cases are asymptotically better than the worst case.

    (D) The best case is asymptotically better than the average case, and the average case is 
    asymptotically better than the worst case.

**(4) We use the parent pointer representation for general trees to solve which problem?**

    (A) Shortest paths (B) General tree traversal?

    (C) Equivalence classes  (D) Exact-match query

**(5) The most effective way to reduce the time required by a disk-based program is to:**

    (A) Improve the basic operations. (B) Minimize the number of disk accesses.

    (C) Eliminate the recursive calls.  (D) Reduce main memory use.

**(6) If a data element requires 4 bytes and a pointer requires 4 bytes, then an orthogonal list representation will be more space efficient than a standard array representation when the fraction of non-zero elements is less than about:**

    (A) 75% (B) 25% (C) 15% ?(D) 5%

**(7) The buddy method creates which form of fragmentation?**

    (A) Internal (B) External (C) Both a and b (D) None of all above.

**(8) Tree indexing methods are meant to overcome what deficiency in hashing?**

    (A) Inability to handle range queries. (B) Inability to handle updates.

    (C) Inability to handle large data sets.  (D) None of all above.

**(9) The most important advantage of a 2-3 tree over a BST is that:**

    (A) The 2-3 tree has fewer nodes. (B) The 2-3 tree has a higher branching factor.

    (C) The 2-3 tree is height balanced.  (D) None of all above.

**(10) Which best characterizes the performance of the splay tree?**

    (A) All operations require O(log n) time.

    (B) m operations require a total of O(m log n) time for m > n.

    (C) All operations require O(n) time.  (D) None of all above.

### 2. Determine жи for the following code fragments in the average case. Assume that all variables are of type int. (9 scores)

**(1)**
```
sum=0;

for (i=0; i<3; i++)

for (j=0; j<n; j++)

sum++;
```

**(2) Assume array A contains a random permutation of the values from 0 to n-1.**

```
sum=0;

for (i=0; i<n; i++)

for (j=0; A[j]!=i; j++)

sum++;
```
**(3)** 
``` C++
sum=0;
if (EVEN(n))
    for (i=0; i<n; i++)
       sum++;
else
    sum=sum+n;
```
### 3. Trace by hand the execution of Quicksort algorithm on the array:
`int a[] = {44, 77, 55, 99, 66, 33, 22, 88, 77} `(10 scores)

### 4. Build the Huffman coding tree and determine the codes for the following set of letters and weights:

| A | B |?C | D | E | F | G | H |
|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|
| 5 |?25 | 3 |?6 | 10 | 11 | 36 | 4 |

**What is the expected length in bits of a message containing *n* characters for this frequency distribution? (14 scores)**

### 5. Show the max-heap that results from running buildheap on the following values stored in an array: 44, 66, 33, 88, 77, 55, 22. (10 scores)

### 6\. Using closed hashing, with double hashing to resolve collisions, insert the following keys into a hash table of eleven slots (the slots are numbered 0 through 10). The hash functions to be used are H1 and H2, defined below. You should show the hash table after all eight keys have been inserted. Be sure to indicate how you are using H1 and H2 to do the hashing.

H1(k) = 3 \*k \* mod 11 
H2(k) = 7 \* k \* mod 10 + 1
Keys: 22, 41, 53, 46, 30, 13, 1, 67. (17 scores)

### 8. A palindrome is a string that reads the same forwards as backwards. Using only a fixed number of stacks and queues, the stack and queue ADT functions, and a fixed number of *int* and *char* variables, write an algorithm to determine if a string is a palindrome. Assume that the string is read from standard input one character at a time. The algorithm should output *true* or *false* as appropriate. (10 scores)

### 9. Write a recursive function named search that takes as input a binary tree (NOT a BST!) and a value K, and returns *true* if value K appears in the tree and *false* otherwise. Your function should have the following prototype:
```
template <class Key, class Elem, class KEComp>

bool search ( BinNode<Elem>* subroot, Key K);
```
(10 scores)
