# Data Structure

## Final Exam

Class ____________ Name ____________ No. ___________ Score ________

### 1. Select the correct choice. ?(20 scores)

**(1) An algorithm must be or do all of the following EXCEPT:**

    (A) Correct (B) Composed of concrete steps (C) Ambiguous (D) Terminate

**(2) Pick the growth rate that corresponds to the most efficient algorithm as n gets large:**

    (A) 5n (B) 20 log n (C) 2n<sup>2</sup> (D) 2<sup>n</sup>

**(3) Which statement is not true among the following four :**

    (A) The number of leaves in a non-empty full binary tree is one more than the number of
    internal nodes.

    (B) The number of empty subtrees in a non-empty binary tree is equal to the number of nodes in 
    the tree.

    (C) A cluster is the smallest unit of allocation for a file, so all files are a multiple of the 
    cluster size.

    (D) The number of 3-node binary trees in different shape is 5.

**(4) The most effective way to reduce the time required by a disk-based program is to:**

    (A) Improve the basic operations. (B) Minimize the number of disk accesses.

    (C) Eliminate the recursive calls.  (D) Reduce main memory use.

**(5) Tree indexing methods are meant to overcome what deficiency in hashing?**

    (A) Inability to handle range queries. (B) Inability to handle updates.

    (C) Inability to handle large data sets.  (D) None of all above.

**(6) When a pointer requires 4 bytes and a data element requires 12 bytes, the linked list implementation requires less space than the array-based list implementation when the array would be:**

    (A) less than 1/3 full. (B) less than 2/3 full.

    (C) less than half full. (D) less than 3/4 full.

**(7) Which of the following is a true statement:

    (A) In a BST, the left child of any node is less than the right child, and in a heap, the left 
    child of any node is less than the right child.

    (B) In a BST, the left child of any node is less than the right child, but in a heap, the left 
    child of any node could be less than or greater than the right child.

    (C) In a BST, the left child of any node could be less or greater than the right child, but in a 
    heap, the left child of any node must be less than the right child.

    (D) In both a BST and a heap, the left child of any node could be either less than or greater than 
    the right child.

**(8)Which is the realization of a data type as a software component:**

    (A) An abstract data type (B) A real data type (C) A type (D) A data structure

**(9)Assume that we have eight records, with key values A to H, and that they are initially placed in alphabetical order. Now, consider the result of applying the following access pattern: F D F G E G F A D F G E, if the list is organized by the move-to-front heuristic, then the final list will be**

    (A) F G D E A B C H (B) E G F D A B C H?

    (C) A B F D G E C H (D) F D G E A B C H

**(10)Given an array as A[m][n]. Supposed that *A*[0][0]is located at 644<sub>(10)</sub> and *A*[2][2]is stored at 676<sub>(10)</sub>, and every element occupies one space. ¡°<sub>(10)</sub>¡± means that the number is presented in decimals. Then the element *A*[3][3]<sub>(10)</sub> is at position:**

    (A) 692 (B) 695 (C) 650 (D) 708

###2. Fill the blank with correct C++ codes: (10 scores)

**(1) Using the C++ abstract class declaration for a list, write a function to interchange the first two elements in the right partition of a list:**

```
// Interchange the order of current and next elements

void switch(List<Elem> L1) {

 Elem temp;

 if ______________________ cout<<"ERROR";

 ____________;

 ____________;

}
```

**(2) Given an array storing integers ordered by value, modify the binary search routines to return the position of the first integer with the greatest value less than K when K itself does not appear in the array. Return ERROR if the least value in the array is greater than K:**

```
// Return position of greatest element <= K

int newbinary(int array[], int n, int K) {

??int l = -1;

 int r = n; // l and r beyond array bounds

 while (l+1 != r) { // Stop when l and r meet

 __________________________; // Look at middle of subarray

 if (K < array[i]) _________; // In left half

 if (K == array[i]) _________; // Found it

 if (K > array[i]) _________ // In right half

 }

 // Search value not in array

 __________; // l at first value less than K

 // l=-1, no value less than K

}
```

**(3) In the trees with n nodes£¬the height of the shortest trees is_____________, and the height of the highest trees is ______________(suppose that the height of an one-node tree is 1)**

### 3. Show the min-heap that results from running buildheap on the following values stored in an array: 4, 2, 5, 8, 3, 6, 10, 14. (10 scores)
<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>

### 4. A certain binary tree has the preorder enumeration as ABECDFGHIJ and the inorder enumeration as EBCDAFHIGJ. Try to draw the binary tree. ( 10 scores)
<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>

### 5. Build the Huffman coding tree and determine the codes for the following set of letters and weights:
| A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H |
|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|
| 5 | 25 | 3 | 6 | 10 | 11 | 36 | 4 |
What is the expected length in bits of a message containing *n* characters for this frequency distribution? ?????????????????????(10 scores)
<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>

### 6. Trace by hand the situation of the array (int a[] = {72,6,57,88,60,42,83,73,48, 85}) using Quicksort algorithm. The pivot is 60 in the first pass, the second is 6 and 73, the third is 57 and 88 and so on till the algorithm is finished. (10 scores)
<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>

### 7. Assume a rather old disk drive is configured as follows. The total storage is approximately 675M divided among 15 surfaces. Each surface has 612 tracks; there are 144 sectors/track, 512 byte/sector, and 16 sectors/cluster. The interleaving factor is four. The disk turns at 3600rmp. The track-to-track seek time is 20 ms, and the average seek time is 80 ms. Now how long does it take to read all of the data in a 360 KB file on the disk? Assume that the first track of the file is randomly placed on the disk and the entire file lies on adjacent tracks, and the file completely fills each track on which it is found. A seek must be performed each time the I/O reader moves to a new track. Show your calculations. (10 scores)
<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>

### 8. You are given a series of records whose keys are integers. The records arrive in the following order: C, S, D, T, A, M, P, I, B, W, N, G, U, R, K, E, H, O, L, J. Show the 2-3 tree that results from inserting these records. (10 scores)
<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>

### 9\. Using closed hashing, with double hashing to resolve collisions, insert the following keys into a hash table of eleven slots (the slots are numbered 0 through 10). The hash functions to be used are H1 and H2, defined below. You should show the hash table after all eight keys have been inserted. Be sure to indicate how you are using H1 and H2 to do the hashing.

H1(*k*) = 3*k* mod 11 ??????????????????H2(*k*) = 7*k* mod 10+1

Keys: 22, 41, 53, 46, 30, 13, 1, 67. (10 scores)
