## 一、选择题
1. The second generation computers is ?
2. Half adder,input is x、y, output is s , what is s?
3. Seek time + rotational latency + transfer time is what?
4. 电脑内存 is 8k words of 32-bit each,最小的 addressable memory unit is 8-bit bytes , 则内存地址需要多少bit？
5. 考取有关Opcode instruction address的点
6. 考取有关hit rate 的点
7. 考取有关control store 的点
8. 判断溢出
9. Hazard的分类
10. RISC的特征
11. About pipelining，①hazard , ②branch penalty , ③implement pipeline
12. In memory-mapped I/O system use _____ to differentiate memory (?) and I/O devices  ？
13. In an interrupt process , the usage of saving PC
14. The required control signals are determined by
15. CICS: the conditional branch uses Relative addressing location:0x0100,offset 0x0010,what is the next instruction?

## 二、简答题
1. What is the difference between a subroutine and an interrupt service routine?
2. Booth’s Algorithm
          11010010
        X 01101111
(1)、How many bits will be need to store the product?
(2)、How many addition and subtractions will be performed?
3. 优缺点of hardwired and micro-programmed:control
4. Point on the dependent instructions,Can we eliminate the data dependencies using forwarding if not ,what should we do? Draw a diagram to show the pipelined execution of the 4个命令
Add  R3、R1、#100
Or   R4、R5、R6
Load   R2、（R3）
Subtract  R9、R2、#30

## 三、大题
1. 两种 static memory chips :128k X 8 bit (total 4 chips) and 512k X 4bit (total 2 chips) implement a 512k X 16 bit memory ,draw the figure of the memory organization.



2. 16-bit format scale factor: 6-bit , e-31 exponent
        0 : 0
        63:infinity
      Mantissa 9 bit
① -0.5625
② +21
③ Add   A= 0100001 111111110
         B=0011111 001010101

3. instruction length :10 bit,operand address :4 bit, need 3 two-address instructions, 15 one , 16 zero . How design instruction format

4. Give the sequence of steps need to fetch and execute the instructions on 5-stage RISC
   SUB R1 R2 R3  (32bit operand)

5. Byte-addressable 
 Virtual address space : 4Gb , Main memory size : 16Mb , Cache size : 256 kb , Page size :
 64kb, MM to c
 4 way set associative HD to MM: full associative
 (1)how many sets int cache memory
 (2)how log is the tag filed of the cache
 (3)virtual Address : 0B45DA12 (hex), 对应虚页存在 physical 页 3E(hex)
   ①What is its physical address under such mapping
   ②Which set can this address found in the cache
   ③Which byte does this address point to out if the 128 bytes in a block
